Week2:

1. Attenuation:

Suppose we are shading using the Phong lighting model. 
An attenuation factor can be intriduced to model the reduction of light intensity with distance. 
This factor is applied to which parts of the Phong lighting model?

Ans:
(a) The specular and diffuse terms

2. Diffuse Reflection in the Phong Lighting Model
Suppose we are shading the vertex N using the Phong lighting model. 
The normal at the vertex is shown as an arrow. 
Which of the following positions of the eye point and a point light will produce the strongest diffuse reflection?

Put the eye point at A and the light point at B

3. Specular Reflection in the Phong Lighting Model 

Put the eye point at A and the light point at C

4. The Blinn-Phong Lighting Model 
Imagine you stop using the Phong lighting model and switch to the Blinn-Phong lighting model. You see the following result:
. Assume that the Blinn-Phong model uses a shininess coeffecient α in the range [1, infinity] . If you wish for the specular highlights 
in the Blinn-Phong image to match the specular highlights in the Phong image, which of the following should you do?

(e) Increase the shininess coefficient α in the Blinn-Phong model.

5. Gouraud Shading
Which of the following is true of Gouraud shading?

Ans:
(c) It shades fragments by interpolating colors across the face of each triangle.

6. Rasterization 1 2 
In this class, we focus on the rendering algorithm known as rasterization. 
Which of the following algorithms best expresses the process of rasterization when applied to a scene consisting of triangles?

c) For each triangle
        Project the triangle to the view plane
          Color the pixels covered by the triangle      
		  
7. Rasterization 1 3 
In this class, we focus on the rendering algorithm known as rasterization. 
Which of the following is true of rasterization?

(a) In general, for each object in a scene, 
rasterization will determine which pixels in the frame will be covered by the projected image of the object.